

Project Executive Summary (1-page limit): The executive summary should
accurately describe the proposed research and the high-impact scientific or
technical advances you will realize with the proposed INCITE allocation.
Industry organizations should also summarize the potential economic or
strategic business impact of the proposed research.  

Project Narrative: The narrative should not exceed 15 pages. Visual
materials—such as charts, graphs, pictures, etc.—are included in the 15-page
limit. References do not count toward the 15-page limit and should be included
at the end of the Project Narrative. URLs that provide information related to
the proposal should not be included. The 15-page limit will be strictly
enforced. The Project Narrative should address the following points: 


Significance of Research: Explain what advances you expect to be enabled by an
INCITE award that justifies an allocation of petascale resources (e.g.,
anticipated impact on community paradigms, valuable insights into or solving a
long-standing challenge, etc.).  Place the proposed research in the context of
competing work in your discipline or business. List any previous INCITE
award(s) received and discuss the relationship to the work proposed. The
information should be sufficient for peer review in your area of research and
also appropriate for general scientific review, comparing your proposal with
proposals in other disciplines.  Data analytics and artificial intelligence
(AI) proposals may find the DOE AI for Science report valuable as a guide when
writing the Significance of Research.  Potential scientific or business impact
is the predominant determinant for awards. This factor will be assessed by a
peer review panel.  This section is typically about 4 pages.  


Research Objectives and Milestones: Describe the proposed research, including
its goals and milestones and the theoretical and computational methods it
employs. Goals and milestones should articulate simulation and developmental
objectives and be sufficiently detailed to assess the progress of the project
for each year of any allocation granted.  Milestones should correlate with
those in Section 4, “Milestone Table.” It is especially important that you
provide clear connections between the project’s overarching milestones, the
planned production simulations, and the compute time expected to be required
for these simulations (e.g., should correlate with Section 2.3.i, “Use of
Resources Requested”) in the research proposal. You should also make clear any
dependencies of milestones on other milestones. This section is typically about
6 pages.  


Computational Readiness: Proposals will be assessed on the need for, readiness
to use, and reasonableness of the request for resources. Proposals should
summarize the requirement(s) that best exemplifies the proposed computational
work. Leadership targets in the INCITE program typically include one or both of
the following categories: 


Simulation, data analytics and/or AI projects should use a significant fraction
(of the order of 20% or more) of one or more of the LCF leadership class
resources; compute, memory, network or disk, for example. Parameter sweeps,
ensembles, design of experiments, and other statistical methods that require
large numbers of discrete or loosely coupled simulations may be considered
capability-class campaigns. See the FAQs for details and qualifiers.  


Specific architectural needs that can only be met by the LCF.  


This section, including the following subsections, is typically about 5 pages.

Use of Resources Requested: Describe your proposed production simulations and
state how the runs are tied to each of your project’s goals and milestones
(Section 4, “Milestone Table”). Also describe the data requirements of your
production simulations. If at any point during your project the sum of your
data storage needs in the scratch file systems exceed 1 petabyte, specific
justification is required. See the Project Narrative Template for a detailed
listing of information required in this section.C NOTE: The LCF data management
plans can be found at ALCF: http://www.alcf.anl.gov/user-guides/data-policy
OLCF: https://docs.olcf.ornl.gov/data/index.html

Computational Approach: Provide a detailed description of your computational
approach, including a discussion of the state of the art in the field. The
description should also mention: 

Particular libraries required by the production and analysis software,
algorithms and numerical techniques employed (e.g., finite element, iterative
solver), programming languages, and other software used.  

Parallel programming model(s) used (e.g., MPI, OpenMP/Pthreads and vector
intrinsics [AVX-512] for Xeon Phi; MPI, OpenMP/Pthreads, CUDA, OpenACC, HIP,
ROCm or AVX intrinsics for AC922).  

Project workflow, including the role of analysis and visualization. Identify
where the analysis will be done and any potential bottlenecks in the analysis
process. Describe any analysis and/or data reduction tools used.  

Software workflow solution (e.g., pre- and postprocessing scripts that automate
run management and analysis) to facilitate this volume of work.  

I/O requirements (e.g., amount, size, bandwidth) for restart, analysis, and
workflow. Highlight any exceptional I/O needs.  

Optimizations for the resources requested (in terms of efficiency, scalability,
throughput, data input/output, workflow tools for ensemble runs, checkpointing
etc.) which may be relevant for data analytics and AI proposals.


Parallel Performance: Provide direct evidence, including supporting
quantitative data, for your production application’s parallel performance for
the intended research simulations. Ideally, the proposing team will have
generated the data and this data will be representative of the entire workflow
of the project proposed. If you cite work by others, explain why it is
applicable here. You should use the application code you intend for the
production work, not a related code. Data for sample systems not related to the
intended research is undesirable. Performance benchmarking should reflect all
I/O and workflow requirements. Scaling and  performance data in either strong
or weak scaling mode should be provided.  Explain how the strong or weak
scaling applies to the proposed work.  For data analytics and AI proposals, a
description of the compute, memory, networking, and storage needs in the
context of the LCF resources will help reviewers understand the strong or weak
scaling characteristics.  See the examples at the end of this page.  NOTE: You
may apply for a startup account at one of the centers to conduct performance
studies. Director’s Discretion applications are available at ALCF:
http://www.alcf.anl.gov/getting-started/apply-for-dd OLCF:
http://www.olcf.ornl.gov/support/getting-started/olcf-director-discretion-project-application

Developmental Work: For the computational approach above, describe what, if
any, development work has been carried out to-date, especially on the
architecture of the requested resource. Describe what development work will be
executed during the proposed INCITE campaign and when it will be executed.
Provide an estimate of the computational resources required for this work. If
applicable, identify the milestones and production activities in Section 2.3.i
that are dependent on the developmental work and provide a plan for validating
this developmental work.  

Personnel Justification and Management Plan: A personnel justification and
management plan must be included in the proposal.  This section is typically 1
to 2 pages, but may be longer for community proposals. (Does not count toward
the 15-page Project Narrative limit).  Personnel Justification: What personnel
are already in place and what are their roles on the project? If applicable,
describe (i) personnel that will be hired for the project in the future and
their responsibilities and (ii) potential personnel turnover that may occur
during the project and a strategy for replacing them. The INCITE program
welcomes proposals from individual PIs or teams of collaborators.  

Management: Describe the project’s leadership team and how decisions are made
to allocate time to individuals or, for proposals with multiple collaborating
teams, subgroups within the project. Describe the focus of each individual or
subgroup. Successful proposals will include a management plan that conveys to
reviewers the interrelationship between subgroups and how the sum of the parts
will lead to scientific discovery or engineering solutions that are the
overarching goal of the project. Also identify points of contact who will
provide updates on the status of the work, including publications, awards, and
highlights of accomplishments.  

Milestone Table: Proposals must be accompanied by a summary table of planned
milestones for each year of the proposed work. Milestones should be clearly
articulated and appropriate for the size and length of the requested award
(e.g., large requests should have sufficient milestones to allow reviewers to
assess the planned project workflow). Future modification to the project scope
and milestones will be tracked in part through the milestone table. Use the
template provided. Below is a description of what should be provided for each
column in the table. (Does not count toward the 15-page Project Narrative
limit).  

Milestones: Clearly state the scientific and technical (e.g., development)
milestones for each year of the proposed work.



Details: Include the following details as appropriate for each milestone.

Resource: List the primary computing resource.  

Node-hours: List the number of node-hours associated with this milestone.  

File system storage: Provide an estimate in terabytes (TB) of the required
temporary storage needed on the file system while the data is analyzed and
reduced or before it is moved to archival storage. Also provide the estimated
time period when this storage is needed.


Archival storage: Provide an estimate in TB of the required archival storage
associated with this milestone for the duration of the project. Also provide
the estimated time period when this storage is needed.  

Application: List the software application or code needed for this milestone.  

Tasks: Briefly summarize the work that will be done by listing the subtasks,
computational runs, and data analysis and reduction tasks associated with each
milestone.


Dependencies: Note dependencies between the scientific milestones and on
proposed development work.  

Date: List the projected start and completion date for each milestone.

Status: For renewal proposals only.

Publications Resulting from INCITE Awards: (Only required for projects with
prior INCITE awards). Provide a list of publications resulting from previous
INCITE awards to this project team for work related to the proposal under
consideration. Only those publications that include an acknowledgement to
INCITE and/or the LCF may be included. This list may not be used in lieu of
references in Section 2, “Project Narrative.” If applicable, list the citations
in both Sections 2 and 5. (Does not count toward the 15-page Project Narrative
limit).  

PI/Co-I Biographical Sketch: Provide a biographical sketch for each PI and Co-I
listed on the proposal. The biographical sketch appendix will not count in the
project narrative page limitation and, for each PI or Co-I, must not exceed two
(2) pages.  As part of the sketch, provide information that can be used by the
reviewers to evaluate the team’s ability to perform the proposed work and
utilize the resources effectively. The biographical sketch must include: 

Education and Training: Undergraduate, graduate and postdoctoral training,
provide institution, major/area, degree and year.  

Research and Professional Experience: Beginning with the current position list,
in chronological order, professional/academic positions with a brief
description.


Publications: Provide a list of the 5 publications most closely related to the
proposed project. For each publication, identify the names of all authors (in
the same sequence in which they appear in the publication), the article title,
book or journal title, volume number, page numbers, year of publication, and
website address if available electronically.  

Research Interests and Expertise: Provide a paragraph describing the research
interests and expertise related to the proposed project.  

Synergistic Activities: List no more than 5 professional and scholarly
activities related to the effort proposed.  

Collaborators: List in alphabetical order all persons, including their current
organizational affiliation, who are, or who have been, collaborators or
co-authors with you on a research project, book or book article, report,
abstract, or paper during the 5 years preceding the submission of this
proposal. For publications or collaborations with more than 10 authors or
participants, only list those individuals in the core group with whom the PI
interacted on a regular basis while the research was being done.  

Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Do not include sensitive and
protected PII including social security numbers, birthdates, citizenship,
marital status, or home addresses. Do not include information that a merit
reviewer should not make use of.  

Appendix 

Examples of Performance Required Materials Quantitative data for production
application performance should be provided in either tabular or graphical form
or both.  This data should reflect the performance of the application for the
production simulations proposed, and should include all I/O requirements of the
production simulations.

Where appropriate, characterize the production application’s single-node
performance (e.g., percent of peak). For example, describe the most
computationally expensive portion of your algorithm and describe the on-node
parallelization scheme employed. Any optimization strategy to improve
single-node performance—including code restructuring, GPU strategy, and
exploiting OpenMP/Pthreads and vectorized instructions—should be described. For
Summit, provide any evidence of speedup using GPUs compared to using all CPU
cores. For Theta, demonstrate the efficient use of many CPU cores per node, and
if not all cores can be used effectively, explain why. For all architectures,
indicate the degree of utilization of any architecture-specific features.  Data
analytics and AI proposals may provide performance data which demonstrates
scalability, efficiency, node or GPU utilization, network bandwidth estimation,
or power profiling for node, CPU, GPU and/or memory.

Weak-scaling behaviors are probed by holding per-node computational work
constant (e.g., the size of the mesh on a processor is held constant) as the
total problem size grows with processor count. Strong-scaling behaviors are
probed by holding the total problem size constant as the processor count grows,
thereby decreasing the per-processor computational work. Note that in the
examples provided, a logarithmic scale is preferred.

For data analytics and AI applications that may weak scale for improved
convergence, present a justification for the scientific impact of the expected
improvements when running at large scale. Address, if necessary, overcoming
difficulties of training with respect to the relevant hyperparameter list for
deep learning applications.

In addition, where appropriate the proposal should describe the entire
computational workflow of the proposed project. In particular, the project
should demonstrate that the entire workflow is tenable on the proposed
architecture or supporting analysis resources at the LCFs or discuss where any
pre- and postprocessing or data analysis will be conducted and how relevant
files will be transferred.
