Computational Readiness: 

Proposals will be assessed on the need for, readiness to use, and
reasonableness of the request for resources. Proposals should summarize the
requirement(s) that best exemplifies the proposed computational work.
Leadership targets in the INCITE program typically include one or both of the
following categories: 


Simulation, data analytics and/or AI projects should use a significant fraction
(of the order of 20% or more) of one or more of the LCF leadership class
resources; compute, memory, network or disk, for example. Parameter sweeps,
ensembles, design of experiments, and other statistical methods that require
large numbers of discrete or loosely coupled simulations may be considered
capability-class campaigns. See the FAQs for details and qualifiers.  


Specific architectural needs that can only be met by the LCF.  


This section, including the following subsections, is typically about 5 pages.

Use of Resources Requested: 

 ONE PAGE

 o Describe your proposed production simulations and state how the runs are tied
   to each of your project’s goals and milestones (Section 4, “Milestone Table”).

 o Describe the data requirements of your production simulations. If at any point
   during your project the sum of your data storage needs in the scratch file
   systems exceed 1 petabyte, specific justification is required. See the Project
   Narrative Template for a detailed listing of information required in this
   section.C NOTE: The LCF data management plans can be found at ALCF:
   http://www.alcf.anl.gov/user-guides/data-policy OLCF:
   https://docs.olcf.ornl.gov/data/index.html

Computational Approach: 

   Provide a detailed description of your computational approach, including 
   a discussion of the state of the art in the field. The description should 
   also mention: 

    1. Particular libraries required by the production and analysis software 

    - Algorithms and numerical techniques employed (e.g., finite element, iterative
      solver), programming languages, 

    - Other software used: 
          .OCCA
          .hypre (on CPU only)

    2. Parallel programming model(s) used (e.g., MPI, OpenMP/Pthreads and vector
       intrinsics [AVX-512] for Xeon Phi; MPI, OpenMP/Pthreads, CUDA, OpenACC, HIP,
       ROCm or AVX intrinsics for AC922).  

    3. Project workflow, including the role of analysis and visualization. Identify
       where the analysis will be done and any potential bottlenecks in the analysis
       process. Describe any analysis and/or data reduction tools used.  

    4. Software workflow solution (e.g., pre- and postprocessing scripts that
       automate run management and analysis) to facilitate this volume of work.  

    5. I/O requirements (e.g., amount, size, bandwidth) for restart, analysis, and
       workflow. Highlight any exceptional I/O needs.  

    6. Optimizations for the resources requested (in terms of efficiency, scalability,
       throughput, data input/output, workflow tools for ensemble runs, checkpointing
       etc.) which may be relevant for data analytics and AI proposals.


Parallel Performance: Provide direct evidence, including supporting
quantitative data, for your production application’s parallel performance for
the intended research simulations. Ideally, the proposing team will have
generated the data and this data will be representative of the entire workflow
of the project proposed. If you cite work by others, explain why it is
applicable here. You should use the application code you intend for the
production work, not a related code. Data for sample systems not related to the
intended research is undesirable. Performance benchmarking should reflect all
I/O and workflow requirements. Scaling and  performance data in either strong
or weak scaling mode should be provided.  Explain how the strong or weak
scaling applies to the proposed work.  For data analytics and AI proposals, a
description of the compute, memory, networking, and storage needs in the
context of the LCF resources will help reviewers understand the strong or weak
scaling characteristics.  See the examples at the end of this page.  NOTE: You
may apply for a startup account at one of the centers to conduct performance
studies. Director’s Discretion applications are available at ALCF:
http://www.alcf.anl.gov/getting-started/apply-for-dd OLCF:
http://www.olcf.ornl.gov/support/getting-started/olcf-director-discretion-project-application

Developmental Work: For the computational approach above, describe what, if
any, development work has been carried out to-date, especially on the
architecture of the requested resource. Describe what development work will be
executed during the proposed INCITE campaign and when it will be executed.
Provide an estimate of the computational resources required for this work. If
applicable, identify the milestones and production activities in Section 2.3.i
that are dependent on the developmental work and provide a plan for validating
this developmental work.  

